what would happen if inflation reignited
in 2024 you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you in today's
video we are going to break that down
we're going to talk about this k-shaped
recovery that has happened and I'm going
to break down what's going on in the
real economy inflation is going to tell
you the answer let's begin by taking a
look at something that quite frankly
needs to be understood in depth and that
is inflation you could look at one
measurement or another and it'll tell a
completely different story but once we
connect the dots we get the full picture
prices fell in November for the first
time since 2020 inflation approaching
the fed target spending and personal
income Rose americ confidence in the
economy rebounded this is what they tell
you these are the stats prices fell last
month for the first time since 2020 the
fed's favorite inflation gauge shows
that Prices rose at
3.2% that was less than expected all of
these things together tell you the big
picture that things are looking okay I
mean Prices rose
3.2% and you could see that prices are
moving down but how many things do you
buy today that the price is actually in
fact lower than what it was before yeah
you might get certain examples but is it
the same quality is it actually raining
the same stuff and of course the
shrinkflation and something else I'm
going to bring up to you in today's
video something new at least a new term
and it's going to highlight what's
really going on here with the consumer
you see you've got all these things
showing up and a lot of it needs to be
connected together or else you'll just
simply skim over it and move on to the
next but that's why you're here you want
the truth consumer sentiment finishes
2023 on a high note as inflation wains
that's right consumers are so happy to
be paying the prices that they are today
but let's be honest when we see these
days and I'm in the e-commerce world and
I see it myself there's a huge dip prior
to Prime day prior to Boxing Day prior
to these different sale days why because
the consumer has been trained to Simply
wait for those moments in time because
they're going to get that exact same
product at a discounted price or there
are some others at least in my Niche
where you'll see they will jack up the
price beforehand so they can do that
fake slash through price when the time
comes regardless we know the way that
this works and inflation is taking hold
and the consumer is simply taking
advantage wherever they can obviously
looking at the Staggering hunger crisis
in America how you can help struggling
food banks this year all of I mean I'm
seen countless articles like this seen
the news reports like this that food
bank usage whether it is in the United
States whether it's in Canada or in
other places it's off the charts record
highs at the same time we're being told
that the consumer is doing better than
ever yes certainly I have seen on boxing
day you look at this the lineup is down
the street for these places there are
certainly you know causes for for this
where the individuals trying to get the
best deal possible you do have people
pushing themselves to the absolute
maximum not just with their savings
because there isn't anymore not just
with their credit cards but now with buy
now pay later and we are seeing that at
um when you look at that at Walmart when
you're going to go to the self checkout
and it's going to say hey do you want to
buy these things buy and out pay later I
mean that's the
situation that has been affecting so
many people this is the new term I was
talking talking about skimp inflation
this grocery uh hits grocery store
aisles amid Rising inflationary
pressures uh an interesting thing I mean
we've seen it obviously you know what
this is but the term here which is
basically a manufacturer decides to
reformulate a product using cheaper
ingredients and in fact a lot of times
as they say here what became the primary
ingredient water they literally watered
down the product and we have seen this
over and over and over again with
different manufacturers trying to cut
costs and they can do that by putting
cheaper types of ingredients in they
could simply replace that with something
else and in fact they showed one example
of this is funny Costco blueberry bagels
which contained No Blueberries I mean
what kind of world are we living in here
but and then we have this Quaker granola
bars which I could have sworn I ate this
when I was a kid
but it's chocolate chip right but it
contains no chocolate now what's going
on here well they obviously when you see
the Coco prices they've gone off the
charts these companies are saying okay
what can we do to essentially mitigate
some of that rise oh I know get rid of
the chocolate replace it with some soy
okay that's what they're doing here the
acceleration of inflation is this in the
second half has begun ah so we are are
starting to see some elements of
inflation taking off this is very
important because it highlights what
could happen just like what occurred in
the 1970s now these are the official
stats you look at CPI you look at core
pce you could see the data coming
through however it doesn't necessarily
have to show up there it could be just
going on uh with the manipulated data
remaining subdued it's 3% it's 4% it's
2% whatever it is but you the individual
you are just getting hammered by it and
if something doesn't change right now
the consumer simply cannot they cannot
deal with this and so we look at the few
issues that we've had recently which is
the skimp flation the shrink flation
where the toilet paper is getting
smaller where the paper towel is less
inside each roll you could see it going
on in all the food products one by one
by one so yeah oh you're paying the same
price or or maybe you could say you know
it's down even down a little let's let's
pretend which I haven't seen that but
we'll see it's down a little bit are you
getting the same quality are you getting
water added to your products are you
getting less inside of that same thing
or it's a service where they used to
include think of the car wash where they
used to include these five different
things now it's just that one thing for
the same price oh you're you when you go
to get the car wash you're pay you're
spending $10 but it used to include
clude all of these different things now
you only get the basic so just think of
that like an example okay so these are
things that are going on all over the
place and it is in fact one way shape or
form inflation so we've got the
potential for reignited inflation that's
what they're talking about here I also
want to highlight the fact that this is
part of the k-shaped economic recovery
right because we saw that during 2020
where a lot of people were being hurt
they were suffering at this time you had
individuals that would basically say
okay well at some point things are going
to get better and we're going to be a
okay but what happened it was a k-shaped
recovery where the richest of the rich
no problem even those who were you know
moderately okay at least in 2020 they
were employed they didn't really have a
problem however 2021 2022 the inflation
went crazy and of course interest rates
were the biggest issue where now
suddenly borrowing costs which weren't a
problem before are now strangling people
and so we could look at the data like I
said Consumer Price Index the
specifically the CPI U there are many of
these different ones whereby you will
see that inflation has started to
reignite even using their own data when
we measure this month over month you
could start to see that however it
wouldn't surprise me to Simply see their
data just decline because it's so
manipulated they do it on purpose
there's no question about it and you
look at this type of thing where at the
bottom it says If the Fed is hoping for
goods deflation they'll be
disappointed and that actually may be
the case however when we measure it like
a CPI core pce this bunch of data it's
really insignificant to the average
person because they're not going to feel
CPI that doesn't happen I'll tell you
who doesn't feel inflation it's the rich
luxury audio brand this is bang and
Olson that sells
$139,000 speakers says that it will beat
the economic slowdown because the rich
will only become richer and it's true
and who can you thank for
that who's responsible for that of
course we know it is the central banks
this is why I highlight it over and over
again where you can see that not what's
happening now remember what happened
before this and the cycle before that
because when you are pumping cash into
the system qe1
123 and then when you stop your
qe3 and the other central banks around
the world start pumping it in you know
that it's going to make its way back
around and push prices up this is a
global situation Global activities
taking place and the richest of the rich
of course will
benefit when will interest rates finally
start coming down ah markets expect at
least one cut by April or June this is
for Canada same circumstance for the
Federal Reserve believing that it's
going to be March maybe it will be in
May who knows um but what they are
suggesting is that it's going to come
you know first quarter potentially rate
cuts
and why because people are suffering
because the national debt is a big
problem and of course corporations that
need to grow are not able to do so when
the cash is too when the debt is too
expensive so let me break this down here
let me tie it
in when we look at these circumstances
right here we can see for a lot of these
companies you're talking about your you
know your big Tech growth companies
these ones they they borrow money and
they've got a borrow based on what the
current rates are and so you got high
rates right now they're borrowing too
much that squeezes their margins down
and they can't grow like they did before
and so they start to feel the pressure
one by one things happen and that's what
we're going through right now we have of
course the bank crisis you've got
companies that have slashed jobs this is
at a time of difficulty who knows where
it's going to end up but they need to
cut rates in order to reduce the burden
on these companies all about the
companies the shareholders it's all
about the richest of the rich it's not
about you right they certainly don't
care about
you and I ask you the question where is
the money going well in this one example
the PPP funds this was
unbelievable but
apparently they had to I mean I if this
is
real they use Barbie dolls to rob the
relief
programs okay they had to use a picture
they were using Barbie
dolls Barbie dolls and the AI I guess it
wasn't to uh smart this AI that the
government used but it was allowing it
it happened and billions of dollars went
to
waste so you got to understand where
your money is going is not the most
efficient location let me tell you
you've got to protect yourself what I do
um I I share I talk about this all the
time on my live sessions that is the
link in the description basically I get
into this for people who want to know
what to do with their money for people
who want to be able to analyze the
information that's coming through so
that they can be aware of it the group
that I have here is the most fantastic
group I could ever ask for it's a small
group and we are you know really coming
to terms with what's happening learning
the absolute Cutting Edge information so
that we can make the best decisions for
ourselves if you're interested in that
if you want to join the group please
click on that link in the description
you're going to see all the details
scroll all the way to the bottom and you
know I hope that you'll I'll see you
there if you found this informative hit
that Thumbs Up Button not once not twice
but three times all right okay and I
hope that uh I'll be seeing you here
tomorrow take care